---
author: tudorjnu
title: >
   Restoring a USB Key to its Original State Using Linux

# date: 2023-06-08 15:17:00 +0100
categories: [Linux, Tools]
tags: [fdisk, CLI]

toc: false
comments: false
math: false
mermaid: false
---


This tutorial, goes through the process of wiping, resetting, partitioning, and formatting a USB drive using a Linux terminal.

## Step 1: Deleting Old Partitions 

The first step is to delete any old partitions that remain on the USB key. Follow these steps to do it:

1. Open a terminal by pressing `Ctrl+Alt+T`.
2. Type `sudo su` to get root access.
3. Type `fdisk -l` to list the drives and note the letter assigned to your flash drive.
4. Type `fdisk /dev/sdx` (replace `x` with your drive letter).
5. Type `d` to delete a partition.
6. Select the partition to delete by typing `1` and pressing `enter`.
7. Repeat steps 5-6 if there are other partitions to be deleted.

## Step 2: Creating a New Partition 

Next, we will create a new partition on the USB key:

1. Type `n` to make a new partition.
2. Type `p` and press `enter` to make this partition primary.
3. Type `1` and then press `enter` to make this the first partition.
4. Press `enter` to accept the default first sector.
5. Press `enter` again to accept the default last sector.
6. Type `w` to write the new partition information to the USB key.
7. Type `umount /dev/sdx1` (replace `x` with your drive letter).

## Step 3: Creating a Filesystem 

Lastly, we create the filesystem, either fat32 or exFAT:

- For Fat32: type `mkfs.vfat -F 32 /dev/sdx1` (replace `x` with your drive letter)
- For exFAT (on Ubuntu or Debian): first, install the necessary utilities by typing `apt install exfat-utils`. Then, type `mkfs.exfat /dev/sdx1` (replace `x` with your drive letter)

That's it! You now have a restored USB key with a single exFAT or fat32 formatted partition that can be read from any computer. This method works on Windows, Linux, or MacOS operating systems for formatting a USB to restore USB drives back to full capacity.

---

Original Source: [Restore USB drives back to full capacity](https://www.pendrivelinux.com/restoring-your-usb-key-partition/)
