---
layout: post
title: 42 Key, Split Keyboard Setup
description: >
  Initial setup of a 42 key ergonomic, split keyboard.
# image:
#   path: /assets/img/blog/jupyter.jpg

categories: [Setup, Hardware]
tags: []
---

Working in 21st century has exchanged manual work for "knowledge work". Whilst that
means that people are not breaking their back in the field anymore, they are suffering from other types of injuries.
Out of these, most common are due to the lack of physical activities. Yeah ... sitting at the PC
for 8 hours a day turns out to not be so healthy. Getting the basics done, by working
out and taking care of the body, shoud come as a priority. After the basics are fulfilled,
there are other parts that one could do to make the workflow more optimal and minimize
more subtle injuries.

Optimality is extremely constrained to what a person is doing. If most of the time
a person spends is not in front of the PC then it makes sense to not invest in
making that workflow optimal. By the same token, a writter has a different requirements
for his work than a programmer or say ... a video editor.

As part of my work, I am constantly writing code. Be it for my PhD or my personal
projects. My editor of choice is NeoVim, which means I've ditched the mouse and flexed
to every person I know. Just kidding, or am I? Either way, this does mean that I am
spending a lot of time using the keyboard and using symbols and shortcuts which lead me
to an understanding of the notorious "emacs pinky", or at least a subtle distaste
for pressing these "Ctr+" and "Shift+" combos (and there are a lot of them).

So what are the alternatives? Personally, I do not see many, besides the use of
a custom keyboard that allows you to set things as you wish. This way, you can make it
adapt to your workflow. As for me, since I already decided to get a custom keyboard,
I also decided to go for a split keyboard. And why stop there and not just constrain myself
to only using 42 keys!? So that's exactly what I did.
